Release 2.1: Overview

(c) Copyright 1992-93 Commodore-Amiga, Inc.  All Rights Reserved

NOTE: In general, all 2.1 Workbench changes also apply to 3.x Workbench.


The 2.1 version of the Amiga operating system is a disk-based revision.
This release is compatible with the 2.04 ROM set and contains enhancements
in four main categories:

1. Locale.library.

This is a new run-time function library that provides an easy way for
applications to support various languages in the international markets
that Commodore serves.  With locale.library you can create a single
application that runs in English, German, French or other languages
according to the user's preference. 

2. Bullet.library.

This is a new run-time function library that provides enhanced
handling and control of the outline fonts introduced in Release 2.0.
The bullet.library is the Amiga implementation of the Agfa Intellifont
engine.  With bullet.library, you can size, shear, rotate and perform
other font manipulations not previously available. 

3. CrossDOS.

This is a new system handler that provides for the reading and writing
of MS-DOS style disks with the Amiga's standard disk drives (no
Bridgeboard or other extra hardware is required). 

4. General Improvements to Workbench and System Programs.

Many of the Amiga's disk-based tools, utilities and other programs
have been upgraded.  There are three new Preferences editors.  There
is now iconic support for device mounting. 



General 2.1 Disk Layout Changes
===============================

Some changes were made to the Workbench disk layout in 2.1.  There are a
few reasons for this:

		o  Need to accommodate localization
		o  Need to accommodate CrossDOS
		o  Attempt to simplify user's lives
		o  Getting everything to fit on the disks

The changes to the Workbench disk set include:

o The 2.1 system software will be shipped on FFS floppies. This is mainly
to increase available storage. 

o There is now a Prefs drawer on the Extras disk.  This is where all the
Preferences editors are located (instead of the Prefs drawer on the
Workbench disk).  The Prefs drawer is maintained on the Workbench disk
only to store ENVARC:

o The Devs directory on Workbench now has an icon.  Devs/Printers and
Devs/Keymaps also have icons.  (In addition each individual printer driver
and keymap has an icon now.) The Monitors drawer is now inside of Devs.
Finally, a new drawer called Devs/DOSDrivers has been added. 

Devs/Monitors
	Place where a user puts a monitor icon to enable it (and
	make it selectable from the ScreenMode Preferences editor).
Devs/Printers
	Place where a user puts a printer icon to make it available
	(i.e.,selectable from the Printer Preferences editor).
Devs/Keymaps
	Place where a user puts a keymap icon to make it available
	(i.e., selectable from the Input Preferences editor).
Devs/DOSDrivers
	Place where a user puts a DOS driver (mount file) icon to
	activate it. 

The files that go in the DOSDrivers drawer are very similar to mount lists
but they have icons so Workbench users can manipulate them.  See the
discussion of the C/Mount command below for more information. 

o A Storage drawer has been added to the Extras disk.  It contains the
same four directories as in the Devs drawer (see above).  This is where
things that are not currently used are kept.  For example, to enable a
particular monitor type, the user is expected to drag the monitor icon
from Storage/Monitors to Devs/Monitors.  This is also how printer drivers,
keymaps and DOS drivers are installed by Workbench users. 

The ability to install a DOS driver by dragging an icon means the
Workbench user can now control what devices get mounted in his system.
This is important for CrossDOS.  By simply double-clicking on the PC0
icon, the user can activate MS-DOS device unit 0.  By dragging the PC0
icon from Storage/DOSDrivers to Devs/DOSDrivers, the selection becomes
permanent and PC0: will be available upon every reboot. 


General 2.1 Improvements
========================

o Most system programs with a GUI are now localized and can be operated in
multiple languages. 

o Many 2.1 system programs now support a PUBSCREEN Tool Type or command
line option which enables them to open on any public screen (not just
Workbench). 

o Many 2.1 system programs with a GUI understand Ctrl-C signals sent to
them and quit. 

o Many 2.1 system programs with a GUI listen for Ctrl-F.  When they
receive this signal, they activate their window, bring it to the front,
and unzip it if needed.  Ctrl-F is thus a sort of wake up call. 

o The icons in 2.1 contain all the Tool Types their respective
applications understand. The Tool Types are commented out in the form:

			(PUBSCREEN=<public screen name>)

The parentheses cause the Tool Types to be overlooked by Workbench.  The
data in angled brackets needs to be filled-in by the user. 

o 2.1 Commodities programs now use the DOS ReadArgs() function for command
line parsing. 

The following system files are no longer needed under 2.1 and are deleted
by the installation procedure.
 
 C/DiskDoctor		Removed for malpractice
 Devs/Keymaps/usa1	Present in ROM.
 Fonts/_bullet/if.ss 	Replaced by Fonts/_bullet/if.uc
 System/AddMonitor	Functionality is now embedded in each monitor
			file directly.
 System/BindMonitor    and Naming modes is now done by the monitors
			themselves in WBStartup/Mode_Names combination
			with IPrefs which handles localization of the names! 
 System/CLI.info     	Redundant.
 System/DiskCopy.info	No need for an icon since the user can't
			double-click on this program.
 System/SetMap		The global keymap can now be selected from the
			Input Preferences editor.  The new SetKeyboard
			command lets you set the keymap for the current
			console window.
 Tools/Commodities/IHelp    Functionality has been absorbed by FKey


Workbench 2.1 Disk Changes
==========================

Workbench2.1:C/BindDrivers
--------------------------
Got smaller.


Workbench2.1:C/Copy
-------------------
Fixed bug where it wouldn't allow 0 byte files to be copied whenever the
BUF argument was set to 0. 


Workbench2.1:C/CPU
------------------
Added EXTERNALCACHE, NOEXTERNALCACHE, COPYBACK, and NOCOPYBACK options
needed for 68040 support. 


Workbench2.1:C/IconX
--------------------
There is now a STACK Tool Type that lets the stack of the script be
specified.  There is also a USERSHELL Tool Type.  Setting "USERSHELL=YES"
will cause the current user shell to be used for the script instead of the
boot Shell. 

IconX has a new WAIT Tool Type to specify a delay in seconds.  WAIT is the
recommended Tool Type in the style guide.  (The old DELAY Tool Type
specifies a delay in 50ths of a second.)

Scripts started by IconX now inherit Workbench's path and prompt string.  

The default window that is opened when there is no WINDOW parameter is now
always as wide as the current screen instead of being hardcoded to 640
pixels wide.  Also the default window spec now includes /AUTO to avoid
mostly useless windows from opening. 


Workbench2.1:C/Info
------------------- 
Now knows about DOS\2, DOS\3, DOS\4, DOS\5 and CrossDOS disk types.


Workbench2.1:C/Install
----------------------
Install can now use the CHECK option on write-protected disks.  Also, it
now supports DOS\2, DOS\3, DOS\4 and DOS\5 disk types.  The FFS
command-line option is now ignored by the program. 

Install now fails when trying to install a device without 512
bytes/sector.  It prints an error message to that effect.  Also it now
gives a meaningful error message when a disk can't be read or written to.
It used to return with "no disk present" as an error. 


Workbench2.1:C/IPrefs
---------------------
IPrefs is now localized and understands the new Locale, Keymap and Sound
Preferences. 

IPrefs now uses iffparse.library to interpret its IFF files and keeps
diskfont.library and iffparse.library closed when they are not in use
allowing them to be expunged.  With iffparse.library, IPrefs can now
handle multiple IFF chunks within an IFF file.  This means that a single
IFF PREF file can contain Preferences for many different elements. 

IPrefs now knows about the new PUNT (Printer Unit) chunk saved by Printer
Preferences.  Also it now reads and processes the new font.prefs file
saved by Font Preferences and ignores the old sysfont.prefs and
screenfont.prefs. 

IPrefs also understands the new international monitor mode names.
When a change to Locale Preferences is made, IPrefs now reads the
sys/monitors.catalog catalog file and updates the name of all available
display modes so they appear in the correct language. 

IPrefs also knows about the unit # specification for multi-serial cards.

 
Workbench2.1:C/List
-------------------
Added two new LFORMAT options.  Use %e to get just the extension for a
file, and %m to get the name only (no ext).  Fixed problems in PAT and SUB
options from 2.04 version. 

 
Workbench2.1:C/LoadWB
---------------------
If the ROM is the final 2.04 ROM, it will do a magic patch that localizes
Workbench to the current default locale.  Since this is done at LoadWB
time, it will remain in effect until you quit Workbench and start again.
If locale.library is not available, it will not localize Workbench. 

Also, if the ROM is the final 2.04 ROM, it will do a magic patch that will
fix the "Rename Error gets stuck" problem. 


Workbench2.1:C/Mount
--------------------
Rewritten from BCPL to C (another one bites the dust) and localized with
much better error reporting, including the filename, line and column
number of where errors in MountLists occur. 

Mount can now be run from Workbench.  This requires new-style MountLists
of the form:

/* Aux-Handler mount entry under 2.1 */
Handler         = L:Aux-Handler       
Stacksize       = 1000       
Priority        = 5

That is, the differences from old style MountLists are as follows:
	o Only a single device can be defined per file.  
	o The name of the device is not specified in the file and is
	  instead the same as the name of  the file.  
	o The # at the end of the entry can be ommited.

This change will allow for easy installation and control of mountable
devices from the Workbench by simply dragging and clicking icons. 

The template for the Mount command is now:				

		"DEVICE/M,FROM/K"
    
DEVICE/M lets multiple devices be mounted in one invocation.  Different
things are done depending whether the device name argument ends with a
colon.  For example:

 Mount PIPE:
         
This will look for the file "DEVS:DOSDrivers/PIPE" and will process it if
found.  This is a new style mount file that doesn't contain the name of
the device within the mount file.  If the mount file is processed
successfully, the Tool Types for "DEVS:DOSDrivers/PIPE.info" are then
processed and override any settings from the mount file.  This is new
behavior. 

If "DEVS:DOSDrivers/PIPE" doesn't exist, an attempt is then made to find a
"PIPE:" entry in "DEVS:MountList".  This is the compatible fall-back
behavior. 

 Mount PIPE
         
When there is no colon at the end of a device name argument, the name is
taken as the filename of the mount file to process.  This filename can
contain wildcards so something like the following is possible: Mount
DEVS:DOSDrivers/~(#?.info).  This is new behavior. 

 Mount PIPE FROM <mountlist>         
Same as above but searches the file given in <mountlist>

 Mount PIPE: FROM <mountlist>
This will scan for a "PIPE:" entry in <mountlist>. This is compatible
behavior. 

String arguments can now be enclosed in double quotes which lets spaces be
included such as:

		Handler = "Boot HD:L/Queue-Handler"

This is handy for mount list entries generated automatically

Added Tool Type processing, any keyword that can be put in a mountlist can
also be put as a Tool Type entry.  The Tool Type data overrides the data
in the mountlist file itself. 

Added ACTIVATE as a synonym to the MOUNT keyword.  This is mainly meant to
eliminate the confusion between the Mount command and the MOUNT keyword.
Also, since this is likely to be one of the most common Tool Types, it
makes sense to give it a more meaningful name. 

When mounting a file system, Mount now scans the file system resource list
for entries having the same DOS type.  If an entry is found, that file
system is used instead of attempting to load a new one from disk.  To
force a file system to be loaded from disk even though a suitable entry is
in the resource list, the FORCELOAD keyword has been added:

	FORCELOAD = 0;   /* default, check the resource list before the disk */         
	FORCELOAD = 1;   /* always load from disk */

Using a file system from the resource list avoids having multiple copies
of the file system code in memory at any one time.  This will make
CrossDOS much less memory hungry. 

No longer checks for absence of L:FastFileSystem, this was now redundant
due to the scanning of the file system resource list. 

The Unit field of the FileSysStartupMsg can now contain a C pointer to a C
string.  The Startup field provided the ability for a handler to get a
string, but it was not possible for a file system to get a string as
parameter.  The Unit field makes it possible.  So if the Unit keyword is
defined as:

            Unit = "blah blah"

then memory is allocated to hold the string and the fssm_Unit field points
to it.  The pointer is a CPTR and the string is a regular C string. 


Workbench2.1:C/SetFont
----------------------
Added check for size < 1.
 

Workbench2.1:C/SetKeyboard
--------------------------
New command which replaces System/SetMap.  This can only be run from the
Shell.  Template is "KEYMAP/A".  The command sets the keymap for the
current console window.  Keymaps are searched for in the KEYMAPS: assign
list. 


Workbench2.1:C/SetPatch
-----------------------
SetPatch now just turns on the data cache and will report this as one of
the patches it installs.  This fixes a problem with earlier versions of
SetPatch always playing with the caches. 

Added code to support the loading/opening of the 68040 support library
(68040.library). 

Fixed BURST mode.

Added patch for Intuition IAddress bug.

Added patch to fix up the line-a exception which is munged at boot time.
This patch will cause an Enforcer hit if you run Enforcer before SetPatch
is run the first time. 

Added the SetRGB4() and LoadRGB4() interrupt patches.

Added the moving of the CIA handler priority to 0 if the priority is lower
than 0. 

Patches console.device BeginIO() such that CMD_CLEAR works and no longer
trashes memory. 

Added a patch for the Display Database for V37.175 Kickstart.  What this
does is catch any routine in graphics that could have caused a dynamic
unpacking of the database and check if the dynamic unpacking was about to
happen.  If it was, it would fail the routine rather than call it since
the monitor was not yet added to the system.  This fixes the problem where
a dynamic unpacking will cause the system to crash in a very bad way.  It
also makes the monitor system more consistent. 

Added patch that will FreeMem() the moniterm memory buffers.  This gives
over 2K of Chip RAM back to the system.  (Unused memory...) This requires
the new A2024 monitor icon if you wish to run A2024 after this SetPatch.
This patch will only run in V37 graphics. 

Added the two patches to fix the holes in the V37 shared semaphore system.
The patches are installed for V37.160 Exec and below. 

Added the REVERSE keyword which was requested by CDTV and is, in general,
a good thing to have for "tweaking" of the system. 

Added a patch that will use the more correct RAMSEY burst mode settings if
you have a 68040 CPU on an A3000 machine running 37.175.  This should help
out the DMA problems of some of the 68040 systems out there (because of a
bug in the DMAC/RAMSEY with SCRAM chips in page mode). 

Added the high-density floppy drive patch.


Workbench2.1:C/Version 
----------------------
The template is now:

	NAME,VERSION/N,REVISION/N,UNIT/N,FILE/S,INTERNAL/S,RES/S,FULL/S

The difference is the addition of /N after VERSION, REVISION, and UNIT. 

Version no longer calls OpenDevice(), and instead checks the Exec device
list itself, and does LoadSeg() of the device when needed.  UNIT option is
now obsolete because of this. 

Corrected handling of version/revision check.  The revision number is now
looked at only if no version number is supplied, or if the supplied
version number matches that of the file.  Also Version now sets error
codes correctly when bad arguments are provided and no longer accesses
illegal memory when doing: Version "".  Also now handles version strings
where the filename has a period. 

 
Workbench:Devs/clipboard.device
-------------------------------
Fixed bug that caused a crash during open, I/O and close of clipboard
units when performed by multiple tasks. 

 
Workbench2.1:Devs/mfm.device
----------------------------
New device in support of CrossDOS. Allows Amiga floppy drives to read
MS-DOS PC-format disks.  Interface is similar to trackdisk.device

 
Workbench2.1:Devs/postscript_init.ps 
------------------------------------
New file needed by the PostScript printer driver.

 
Workbench2.1:Devs/printer.device 
--------------------------------
Preferences.i/h now has fields in it for the printer.device that can be
used to specify a device name, and unit number.  This is needed for the
Printer Preferences UNIT option and lets the printer.device output to any
port of a multi-serial card, or even to any other device (although we
don't have a UI to let the user do this yet)

The printer.device now looks for the printer drivers in the PRINTERS:
assign list first, then in DEVS:printers. 

The printer.device messages are now localized and it now uses
EasyRequest() instead of AutoRequest() to display messages. 
 

Workbench2.1:L/CrossDOSFileSystem
---------------------------------
CrossDOS file system allowing AmigaDOS to read and write MS-DOS PC-format
disks. 


Workbench2.1:L/FileSystem_Trans/#?
----------------------------------
CrossDOS translation tables.  These serve to determine how 8-bit ASCII is
mapped between Amiga and PC file systems.  A listing of this directory in
shown in the CrossDOS Preferences program. 


Workbench2.1:Libs/asl.library
-----------------------------
The ASL library has been extensively revised for the 2.1 release of the
Amiga OS.  The main changes to ASL library of interest to programmers are
as follows:

o Implemented a new ScreenMode requester.

o There are many new options available for better program control of the
requesters, see asl.doc for more info. 

o New <libraries/asl.h> and <libraries/asl.i> files with new consistent
names for everything. 

o Additional changes in the behavior of all ASL requesters are:
  -------------------------------------------------------------
Localized all requesters.  By default, they will use the system's current
locale.  An application can also override this and pass in its own locale. 

All requesters are now font-sensitive.  By default, the screen's current
font is used.  An application can override this and provide its own font. 

All requesters can now use a screen pointer, a public screen name, or a
window pointer to set the screen on which to open. 

All requesters can now open an invisible Intuition requester and put up a
busy pointer in the calling application's window, effectively putting that
window to sleep until the requester is satisfied. 

All requesters now have Next and Previous items in the Control menu. 

All requesters can now use the up and down cursor keys to scroll the
listview.  Alt-Cursor brings you to the top/bottom of the file list,
Shift-Cursor moves you by one viewful, and the cursor keys by themselves
move you one item at a time. 

o Changes to 2.1 ASL file requesters are as follows:
  --------------------------------------------------
The file requester now displays file sizes, date and time for files.  The
volume display shows the volume name, device name, number of % used, Ks
free and Ks used (just like a Workbench volume window). 

A file requester is now an AppWindow.  Drop any icon on it, and the path
of that icon goes in the Drawer gadget, while its name lands in the File
gadget. 

Clicking the middle mouse button when neither Shift or Alt keys are held
down brings up the volume list. 

File requesters now let you delete files by selecting the "Delete" menu
item in the Control menu. 

The file requester now uses correct highlighting method and does
multiselect in a manner consistent with Workbench (you need to hold down
the shift key to do multiselect). 

File requester is between 2 and 7 times faster at loading a directory
listing

Added "drive LED" simulation.  The light turns on whenever a directory is
in the process of being loaded and turns off when the directory is
completely loaded. 

Multiselect mode in the file requester works correctly when entering a
name in the string gadget.  Previously, names in string gadgets were
ignored, making it impossible to use a multiselect file requester from the
keyboard. 

Typing text in the File gadget now causes the list view to resynchronize
and display files which start with the same letters. 

Selecting any menu item, clicking in the list view, on the Volumes gadget
or the Parent gadgets now activates the File gadget (or Drawer gadget if
in directory-only mode). 

o Changes to the 2.1 ASL font requester are:
  ------------------------------------------

Font requester now does caching of the font list.  That means it will
display the lists of fonts many times faster than previously. 


Workbench2.1:Libs/bullet.library
--------------------------------
This is the new Compugraphic outline font engine.  See bullet.doc for more
info. 


Workbench2.1:Libs/commodities.library
-------------------------------------
Changed the function SetCxObjPri().  This function now returns the
previous priority of the object.  Added a new function: MatchIX().
Previously, this function was internal but now is available to
applications.  It matches an input event to a commodity input expression.
See commodities.doc for more information. 

Added <rawmouse> code strings.  This enables the use of events of type
rawmouse.  The new strings are:

		MOUSE_LEFTPRESS         
		MOUSE_MIDDLEPRESS 
		MOUSE_RIGHTPRESS

These are the names to describe the mouse button presses.  Not to be
confused with mouse button qualifiers.  Example usage would be to specify
as CX_POPKEY sequence for a commodity:

		CX_POPKEY=rawmouse mouse_middlepress

The above would cause the commodity to open its window whenever the middle
mouse button is depressed. 

It is now illegal to specify <rawkey> codes for non-rawkey events.  The
error was not being caught. 

Synonyms were added for event qualifiers.  They used to have
programmer-level names, now the synonyms offer something more consistent
and useable to the normal user (as opposed to us abnormal
programmer-types).  These qualifiers can be specified in mixed-case. 


The possible qualifiers are:

Original			New Synonyms
LCOMMAND		LEFT_COMMAND, LAMIGA, LEFT_AMIGA
RCOMMAND		RIGHT_COMMAND, RAMIGA, RIGHT_AMIGA
LSHIFT			LEFT_SHIFT
RSHIFT			RIGHT_SHIFT
LALT			LEFT_ALT
RALT			RIGHT_ALT
CAPSLOCK		CAPS_LOCK
CONTROL			CTRL
NUMERICPAD		NUMERIC_PAD, NUMPAD, NUM_PAD
LBUTTON			LEFTBUTTON, LEFT_BUTTON
MIDBUTTON		MBUTTON, MIDDLEBUTTON, MIDDLE_BUTTON
RBUTTON			RIGHTBUTTON, RIGHT_BUTTON
RELATIVEMOUSE         
REPEAT

ALT, SHIFT and CAPS work as before.

Synonyms were added for keyboard sequences.  Support was also added for
the extended Amiga keyboard.  The possible keyboard sequences are:

BACKSPACE  					F1..F12  
BREAK  						HELP  
COMMA  						HOME  
DOWN, CURSOR_DOWN  				INSERT  	
LEFT, CURSOR_LEFT  				PAGE_DOWN  
RIGHT, CURSOR_RIGHT  				PAGE_UP  
UP, CURSOR_UP  					PAUSE  
DEL, DELETE  					RETURN  
END  						SPACE, SPACEBAR  
ENTER  						TAB
ESC, ESCAPE  

Fixed various bugs.  Fixed reentrancy problems in ParseIX().  Fixed bug
with the library freeing signal bits of the wrong task on exit, resulting
in a potentially dangerous situation.  Fixed several low-memory
Enforcer/MungWall bugs.  Fixed incorrect routing of events by translator
objects.  (The translated events would skip the remainder of the input
network instead of being inserted midstream like the docs describe.) Added
warning in Autodoc concerning the fact translator objects insert their
translation list in reverse order than what you ask them.  (This bug
cannot be fixed without endangering compatibility.) Fixed a bug in
ParseIX() that prevented mouse button qualifiers from working. 


Workbench2.1:Libs/diskfont.library
----------------------------------
New version supporting external font engines.


Workbench2.1:Libs/locale.library
--------------------------------
New library that provides the core of system localization.  This library
helps Amiga programmers create applications that work in more than one
language.  See locale.doc for more information. 
 

Workbench2.1:Libs/mathieeedoubbas.library
-----------------------------------------
Fixes the DPFix() routine which was trashing d3 under certain input values.


Workbench2.1:System/CLI
----------------------- 
Now can start up a user shell instead of just the boot Shell.  Every Shell
started from Workbench now consumes around 7.5K less memory than in 2.04.
This is because the CLI program itself now quits once the Shell is opened
instead of waiting for it to close.  This also means that you can now
start a Shell from Workbench, and be able to quit Workbench.  In 2.04, it
would complain that there were some running programs. 
 
The CLI now copies its prompt from Workbench.  Also the default window
that is opened when there is no WINDOW parameter is now always as wide as
the current screen instead of hardcoded to 640 pixels wide. 
 

Workbench2.1:System/DiskCopy
----------------------------
Messages are now localized.  DiskCopy now has a GUI when running from
Workbench with a fuel gauge and a Stop gadget that looks identical to the
Format GUI. 
     
Hitting Ctrl-C at the startup prompt is now sufficient to stop the copy
operation.  You no longer need to enter Ctrl-C followed by Return. 
     
Marks the disks it is copying to as "BAD\0" so if the copy operation is
aborted, Workbench will show the disks as "????"


Workbench2.1:System/Format
--------------------------
The Format command is now localized and has a GUI when run from Workbench.
Here's a summary of the controls:

 The "Current Information" section shows the device name to be formatted,
the name of the volume in this device (if any), the capacity of the
device, and the percentage of use.  This information is updated if disks
are inserted or removed while the window is up. 

  The "New Volume Name" text gadget lets you specify the name for the
volume after format. 

  The "Put Trashcan" checkbox gadget lets you specify whether to put a
trashcan on the formatted disk. 

  The "Fast File System" gadget lets you specify whether to use FFS on
the volume. 

  The "International Mode" gadget lets you specify whether to format
using the international FS or not (DOS\2 and DOS\3). 

  The "Format" gadget starts the formatting.

  The "Quick Format" gadget starts quick mode formatting (root block
formatting only). 

  The "Cancel" gadget cancels the operation.

The format program can now be started by double-clicking its icon.  This
brings up a list of all devices that can be formatted.  After selecting
"Format" or "Quick Format", a requester appears asking for confirmation.
The requester lists the name of the device about to be formatted, or the
name of the volume on this device if available, as well as the capacity of
the device, and its current percentage of use. 

After confirming "Format" in the above requester, two things may happen.
If the device being formatted is smaller than 3Mb in size, the formatting
begins immediately.  If the device is larger, then another different
confirmation requester appears.  Clicking "Format" on this requester will
actually start the formatting.  The reason for this second requester is
for added protection against formatting your harddrive. 

During the formatting process, a fuel gauge is displayed showing the
progress of the formatting.  A "Stop" gadget is also present to let you
abort the operation. 

The template from the Shell for the Format command is now:
DEVICE=DRIVE/K/A,NAME/K/A,OFS/S,FFS/S,INTL=INTERNATIONAL/S,
NOINTL=NOINTERNATIONAL/S,NOICONS/S,QUICK/S

DEVICE was added as a synonym for DRIVE, since this is the word used
elsewhere in the system ("Please insert <blah> in device DF0" for
example). 

The INTL or INTERNATIONAL options let you specify international file
system (DOS\2 or DOS\3). 

The OFS option forces the use of OFS on the disk.  This is for devices
which have FFS as default.  The NOINTL option serves the same purpose for
the international mode operation. 

So, specifying neither OFS or FFS will give you the default FS for the
device.  OFS will always give you OFS, and FFS will always give you FFS.
Same logic applies for INTL/NOINTL.  None of these switches do anything on
devices of other DOS types, like CrossDOS for example. 

Hitting Ctrl-C at the startup prompt is now sufficient to stop the format
operation, no longer need to enter Ctrl-C followed by Return. 

Format now names its disks "BAD\0" when formatting so that Workbench will
show them as "DF0:????" if the format operation fails, instead of
"DF0:COPY".  Also it now returns ERROR_OBJECT_IN_USE if a device is
already inhibited when it tries to format and returns a correct error
message if there is a media error, instead of saying "Error 1."


Workbench2.1:System/Fountain (aka Intellifont)
----------------------------------------------
Uses new loader code that works with hintless fonts. 

Fixed numerous bugs.  Changed p1[6] to p1[7] in the HPFontAlias structure.
This fixes the problem with long type-face names.  Window height is now
correctly calculated when using a virtual screen (this bug was the most
reported bug for Fountain).  Changed all buttons to 14 pixels high (to be
consistent with other Workbench programs).  Changed list view tags to be
consistent with other Workbench programs.  Now recognizes fontindx.fi
files that don't have a NULL pad byte.  Changed a strcmp() to Stricmp() so
that detection of _Bullet_Outlines is now case-insensitive. 

Fountain was creating wrong .otag files if the font didn't contain a
OT_SymbolSet.  This is now corrected.  Cycling through the Destinations,
Fountain would foul up if a temporary name was added to the list.  This is
now corrected.  Fountain was filling out the Source text entry gadget if
there was a FAIS disk inserted, but wasn't filling out the list view with
the available typefaces.  This is now corrected.  Fixed two errors that
caused a crash when installing BRUSH font. 
 
Now disables the Install button if there isn't anything to install.  Also,
disables the Modify button if there isn't anything to modify.  Changed
window title to "Fountain Installing..." while installing typefaces. 


Workbench2.1:System/InitPrinter
-------------------------------
Got smaller.


Workbench2.1:System/NoFastMem
-----------------------------
Got smaller and, in addition to setting MEMF_CHIP in all memory
allocations, it now also clears MEMF_FAST. 


Workbench2.1:System/Shell.info
------------------------------
Added WINDOW, STACK and FROM Tool Types.  


Workbench2.1:Utilities/Clock
----------------------------
Fully localized and now conforms more to the style guide layout and menu
recommendations. 

Workbench2.1:Utilities/Display
------------------------------
Any clipboard unit ILBM can now be displayed with -cN where N=clipboard
unit number (default 0).  Error messages are now localized and Display now
notifies the user if it has to delve into a complex file to find the ILBM.
Fixed wrong error message printed instead of File Not Found.  Fixed
improper returning of error code 1 when successful (now 0).  Fixed bad
test for public screen (also fixes a crash under 1.3). 

 
Workbench2.1:Utilities/More
---------------------------
Localized messages and fixed range check so More won't complain that
character 0x9b is binary. 







Extras 2.1 Disk Changes
=======================

Extras2.1:Prefs/#? 
------------------
All Preferences editors are localized.  Preferences editor windows are now
made into AppWindows.  That is, you can drop .prefs file icons on them. 

There is now a new PUBSCREEN Tool Type (and command line argument) to
bring up the Preferences editors on any public screen.  Also, a new Tool
Type, CREATEICONS, can be set to yes or no. 

The name of the last menu is changed from "Options/Save Icons?" to
"Settings/Create Icons?" to match the style guide. 

The default state of the "Settings/Create Icons?" option is set to TRUE
when the Preferences editor is run from Workbench, and FALSE when it is
run from the Shell. 

Editors now use ASL's new automatic icon filtering feature as well as the
new ASLFR_SleepWindow tag which puts the calling window to sleep when a
file requester is opened. 

Unlike 2.04, the Preferences editors now parse Tool Types in the Tool
icons in addition to those from Project icons. 

Editors now do a ScreenToFront() for the screen on which they open when
starting up. 

 
Extras2.1:Prefs/Font
--------------------
This editor now has an improved UI using asl.library's font requester.  


Extras2.1:Prefs/Input 
---------------------
Now supports keymap selection.  


Extras2.1:Prefs/Locale
----------------------
This is a new Preferences editor that lets you choose in which language to
operate the system.  This is the user's control over system localization. 

 
Extras2.1:Prefs/Overscan 
------------------------
The Overscan editor no longer uses menus in the edit screen, and instead
has a pair of Use/Cancel gadgets. 

There is now a real-time display of the current size and position as the
overscan areas are being edited.  The overscan editing screen now has a
second bitplane whenever a genlocked system is being used.  This lets the
border around the edit area be seen through, while everything within the
edit area is opaque. 

Changed "Standard Overscan" to "Graphics Overscan" which matches ASL
ScreenMode requester terminology. 

The default view position and preferred mode for editing now come from the
graphics database, instead of being coded into Overscan. 

Now handles monitor types that are unknown to it.

On the edit screen, the menu button now cancels a sizing/moving operation.
On the edit screen, a sizing operation is aborted if another window is
made active. 

 
Extras2.1:Prefs/Palette
-----------------------
Palette now fully supports N bits per gun, for N <= 8.  This means modes
such as Super72 or Multiscan will only have 2 bits per gun in the sliders
and will finally work right. 


Extras2.1:Prefs/Pointer
-----------------------
Added clipboard Cut, Copy and Paste of ILBM's.  Added Erase and Undo.
Added CLIPUNIT command line option and Tool Type. 


Extras2.1:Prefs/Printer 
-----------------------
There is now a UNIT command line option and Tool Type which causes an
extra gadget to be displayed to let the user select which device unit the
printer will send its output to. 

Now outputs a PUNT (Printer Unit) chunk in the printer .prefs file.

Now scans for printers in the PRINTERS: assign list instead of in
DEVS:Printers. 


Extras2.1:Prefs/PrinterGfx
--------------------------
Now has the "Options/Use Metric System" menu option, with its initial
setting determined by the current locale. 

No longer ghosts the Threshold gadget which allows the non-standard use of
this gadget by the HP Deskjet 500C driver. 


Extras2.1:Prefs/PrinterPS
-------------------------
New PostScript printer driver preferences editor enabling control of
numerous features of PostScript printers.  Here's a brief summary of most
of the controls:

Driver Mode:

Lets you select between "PostScript" or "Pass Through".  The "PostScript"
mode will cause the driver to convert any text output sent to it to
"PostScript" and send the results over to the printer.  The "Pass Through"
option will force the driver to leave the data alone and send it directly
to the printer.  The "Pass Through" option lets programs that output
PostScript directly function correctly by sending their PostScript code
directly to the printer and not treating it as a text file. 
 
Copies:

This specifies the number of copies of each page to print, from 1 to 99. 

Paper Format:

Lets the user select between "U.S. Letter", "U.S. Legal", "DIN A4" and
"Custom".  This defines the size of the paper being used.  Clicking on
this gadget sets the values in the "Paper Width" and "Paper Height" cycle
gadget to match what the format dictates. 
 
Paper Width and Paper Height:

These let you specify the exact paper dimensions being used.  These
gadgets are ghosted unless the "Paper Format" gadget is set to "Custom". 
 
Horizontal DPI and Vertical DPI:

Lets you specify the dots per inch to use in the printout.  The driver
will assume that DPI for all of its dithering and other processing. 
 
Panel Cycle Gadget:
 
This lets you select which of the four additional option panels is
currently displayed.  The four panels are "Text Options", "Text
Dimensions", "Graphics Options", and "Graphics Dimensions".  The panel
selected determines which of the following gadgets is displayed.  The
reason to use gadget panels is due to lack of space in a 640x200
resolution display. 

o Text Options
	 Font
	This lets you select which font to use in printout.
	These are built-in printer fonts and are used whenever text
	is sent to the printer. 

	 Pitch		
	Lets you select either "Normal", "Compressed", or "Expanded"
	print faces.

	 Orientation
	Lets you select between "Portrait" or "Landscape" printing.
	Landscape printing is useful for things like envelopes.

	 Tab
	Lets you specify how to handle tabs in the printed file.
	The available selections are "4 characters", "8 characters",
	"1/4 Inch", "1/2 Inch", and "1 	Inch".  The inch settings are
	useful when printing with a proportional font.

o Text Dimensions
	 Margin Gadgets
	Lets you specify all four margins for text printing.  The values
	entered are relative to the left/top edge of the paper as well
	as to the paper's width and height values specified previously.

	 Font Point Size
	Lets you specify the size of the font to use whenever text is
	sent to the printer.

	 Line Leading
	Lets you specify the amount of leading betweens printed lines
	of text.  Leading is the distance between two adjacent lines.

	 Lines Per Inch
	This text display area shows the number of lines per inch which
	is calculated based on the values of the "Font Point Size" and
	"Line Leading".

	 Lines Per Page
	This text display area shows the number of lines per inch which
 	is calculated based on the values of the "Font Point Size",
	"Line Leading", "Paper Height", "Top Margin", and "Bottom Margin".

o Graphics Options
	 Edge Dimension
	Similar to the four margin gadgets, but used for printing.

	Gadgets		
	 Shading
	Lets you select between "Black & White", "Grey Scale", and "Color".

o Graphics Scaling

	 Aspect
	When printing graphics, this lets you specify whether the picture
	should be printed normally, or sideways.  This is the first
	operation done on a graphics, it happens before the scaling.

	 Scaling Type
	Lets you select one of 7 scaling types.  All types control how
	the picture is printed within the user specified printing region.

	1 - No scaling. This prints the picture as is.  The picture may
	be clipped on the right and bottom edges to fit within the print
	region specified. 

	2 - Aspect preserving scale with horizontal bias.  This makes
	the horizontal dimension as wide as the print region, and scales
	the vertical dimension by whatever is needed to preserve the
	aspect ratio. The vertical dimension is clipped to the print
	region if it gets too tall.

	3 - Aspect preserving scale with vertical bias.  This makes the
	vertical dimension as tall as the print region, and scales the
	horizontal dimension by whatever is needed to preserve the
	aspect ratio.  The horizontal dimension is clipped to the print
	region if it gets too wide.

	4 - Aspect preserving maximum scale.  This makes the picture as
	big as possible while ensuring it fits in the print region and
	preserves its aspect ratio.

	5 - Aspect insensitive scale with no bias.  This makes the
	picture take up the entire print region in both dimensions and
	will distort the aspect ratio if needed.

	6 - Aspect insensitive scale with horizontal bias.  This makes
	the horizontal dimension as wide as the print region, and scales
	the vertical dimension by whatever is needed to preserve the
	aspect ratio, or until the vertical dimension gets as tall as
	the print region.  The difference between this type and type #2
	is that the vertical dimension is made to always fit within the
	print region instead of being clipped.

	7 - Aspect insensitive scale with vertical bias.  This makes the
	vertical dimension as tall as the print region, and scales the
	horizontal dimension by whatever is needed to preserve the aspect
	ratio, or until the horizontal dimension gets as wide as the
	print region.  The difference between this type and type #3 is
	that the horizontal dimension is made to always fit within the
	print region instead of being clipped.

	 Scaling Math
	Determines whether "Integer" or "Fractional" math is to be used
	during scaling operations.

	 Centering
	This lets you specify no centering, horizontal centering,
	vertical centering, or both horizontal and vertical.
	The centering operation is performed last in the printing process,
	after the scaling.

	 Scaling
	These show a sample picture being scaled to various target sizes. 

 	 Samples
	Selecting different scaling types changes the samples to
	reflect what would happen on the printed page.
 


Extras2.1:Prefs/Serial 
----------------------
Added UNIT command-line option and Tool Type to support the A2232 board.
When this option is specified, an additional gadget is added to the window
to let you set the default A2232 unit.  This makes the old
A2232_Preferences program obsolete. 


Extras2.1:Prefs/ScreenMode
--------------------------
Now has better code to handle unnamed modes.  The mode is now always
preceded by the monitor name, just like the ASL ScreenMode requester
names. 


Extras2.1:Prefs/Sound
---------------------
This is a new preferences editor that lets you control what happens when a
DisplayBeep() function call is made.  Lets you replace the screen flash by
an audio beep or an IFF sampled sound. 


Extras2.1:Prefs/Time
-------------------- 
Time now has a SAVE command-line option.  This causes the program to just
copy the current system time to the battery clock

It will adapt its display to start weeks on the days indicated in the
current locale.  Also has a localized time display region to enhance
useability of the Hours and Minutes sliders. 

Now has a Project menu with a single Quit item.


Extras2.1:Prefs/WBPattern
-------------------------
Added clipboard Cut, Copy and Paste of ILBMs and new preset patterns.
Added CLIPUNIT command line option and Tool Type. 


Extras2.1:Storage/Keymaps/f 
---------------------------
The numeric keys (not the keypad) were made capsable.


Extras2.1:Storage/Keymaps/po 
----------------------------
New Portuguese keymap.


Extras2.1:Storage/Monitors/#? 
-----------------------------
These replace the 2.04 (V37) monitors, and render C:AddMonitor and
C:BindMonitor obsolete.  These are true executables as opposed to the V37
monitor files which contained only data.  The seven monitor types
supported under 2.1 are:

	 NTSC		 Euro36        (36Hz refresh rate)    
	 PAL 		 Euro72        (72Hz refresh rate)         
	 Multiscan      Super72       (72Hz, higher resolution)
	 A2024         
        
Previously, it was possible to change some of the monitor hardware values
such as BEAMCON0 and VBSTRT from either the command line or with Tool
Types in the icon.  However, as the monitors were started up by the
startup-sequence, it was not possible to make the required changes without
editing the startup-sequence which is now considered a bad thing.  So,
starting with this release, the .info file is always examined for the Tool
Types, irrespective of whether the program is run from a Shell or
Workbench.  The command line parsing has been removed. 
 
If there are Shell arguments, they now override the .info Tool Types.
     
The new A2024 "fixes" the blank right hand edge problem. ("Fixes" because
it actually uses a side affect of the chips as it always has done).  To
get the 1024 pixels in 10Hz required a very overscanned Lores screen, with
a greater DIWSTOPX value than is supported (DIWSTOPX = 465,
MaxDeniseColumns = 455).  However, when scrolling, this would require a
DDFSTOP value greater than 0xd8, which is not possible.  So, when you drag
this screen horizontally, you will still lose some pixels at the right
hand side.  In the default position though, everything is fine. 
     
The A2024 now allocates the GfxBase private data structures itself instead
of graphics doing it at powerup.  This is so that we can save 3K of Chip
RAM in SetPatch by freeing this data.  Anyone not using an A2024 will
benefit (it's suspected that this is a relatively high % of our users).
In addition to the above changes, there is now a double buffer attribute
for monitors.  Also, some memory allocation problems were fixed.  Finally,
a bug in which the monitor wouldn't be initialized if there was no .info
file was corrected. 


Extras2.1:Storage/Printers/#?
----------------------------- 
All drivers now support A4 paper sizes.  Changes to individual drivers are
as follows:

 PostScript	New PostScript printer driver.  See the description of
		the new PrinterPS Preferences editor for information on
		controls.

 CBM_MPS1000	A bug fix - the sequences for elite, and compressed were
		changed post 1.2, and have been broken since then.

 EpsonX		A bug fix: upper-case-I-acute-accent was being printed
  and EpsonQ	as grave.

 HP_LaserJet	Minor change - 60 second timeout for 300 DPI graphics
		(30 seconds otherwise) - this is a common complaint;
		the driver times out too soon at 300 DPI.  Also StartCmd
		wasn't NULL terminated.  This has been corrected.

 HP_DeskJet	This is a new and improved version of the driver.
		The old one will still be included on Workbench disks
		as HP_DeskJetOld.  The old HP_Deskjet driver only
		supported the B&W HP_Deskjet printers.  The new
		HP_Deskjet driver also supports the new (and extremely
 		popular) HP_500C color deskjet printer.  This is a
		300 DPI color ink printer.
		In addition to supporting color graphic dumps on
		the HP_500C, the driver supports (via DENSITY) the
		various shingling modes available on the 500C, and
		provides color and lightness correction via THRESHOLD
 		(a non-standard use of the THRESHOLD gadget).
		If THRESHOLD is set to 1, no corrections are made.
		This setting is required when printing directly from
		any package which does its own enhanced dithering (such as
	 	Art Department Pro).

		When printing with software that uses standard Amiga
		printer device color printing, the THRESHOLD gadget can
		lighten the output.  Settings from 2 through 15 provide
		successively lighter output.  When printing in gray
		scale, there is just one fixed correction.  THRESHOLD 1
		will apply no correction, and any other setting will
		apply the fixed lightening correction.

 CanonBJ10	New driver.


Extras2.1:Tools/Calculator
--------------------------
Calculator is now localized and font-sensitive.  Also now uses
gadtools.library instead of custom 3D look. 
     
Added more keyboard shortcuts for gadgets. The following are now
supported:

0..9			for the number gadgets       
+			for addition 
-			for subtraction 
*, x, X or ALT-X    	for multiplication (exact keystrokes depend on
			keymap)       
/ or SHIFT-ALT-X	for division (exact keystrokes depend on keymap)
= or RETURN/ENTER   	for result       
.                   	for the decimal point (also depends on locale)       
s or S or ALT-Z		for unary minus (the +/-) (S for Sign)       
BACKSPACE		to delete the last char entered (like the <- key)
DEL or A            	to clear all (CA key)       
E			to clear the entry (CE key)       
Ctrl-C or ESC		to quit

Added menus to the program, including an Edit menu which lets you cut and
copy the current number to the clipboard, as well as paste numbers into
the calculator.  In fact, you can paste more than numbers!  That is, if
the clipboard contains "1+2+3+4=" and you paste this in the calculator,
the expression is evaluated and the result is displayed. 

Added a Calculator Tape window to display data as it is being processed.
Added the TAPE command line option or Tool Type entry that lets yoy
specify the name of the console to open when opening the Calculator Tape
window. 
     
Added the PUBSCREEN command line option and Tool Type that lets a public
screen name be specified. 

Now uses the Amiga character set's multiply and divide symbols to
represent these operations instead of * and /. 


Extras2.1:Tools/Commodities/AutoPoint
-------------------------------------
AutoPoint now has messages localized and consumes much less CPU time when
it is just sitting waiting in the input stream.  Also uses ReadArgs() to
parse command-line options.  Template is:
		CX_PRIORITY/N/K


Extras2.1:Tools/Commodities/Blanker 
-----------------------------------
Blanker now has messages localized and consumes much less CPU time when it
is just sitting waiting in the input stream.  Also does optional splines
and color cycling. 
     
Blanker now uses ReadArgs() to parse command-line options.  Template is:
		CX_PRIORITY/N/K,CX_POPKEY/K,CX_POPUP/K,SECONDS/N/K,
			CYCLECOLORS/K, ANIMATION/K:
     
SECONDS takes the number of seconds before blanking.  CYCLECOLORS takes
"YES" or "NO" to set color cycling.  ANIMATION takes "YES" or "NO" to do
splines or not.  Tool Types exist that match the command-line template. 


Extras2.1:Tools/Commodities/ClickToFront
----------------------------------------
Now has messages localized and consumes much less CPU time when its just
sitting waiting in the input stream.  Also uses ReadArgs() to parse
command-line options.  Template is:
		CX_PRIORITY/N/K,QUALIFIER/K
  

Extras2.1:Tools/Commodities/CrossDOS
------------------------------------
This is a new CrossDOS control program that lets you set three parameters
for every CrossDOS device currently mounted.  (The CrossDOS devices list
view lets you pick the device to work on.)

The Text Filtering checkbox lets you specify whether CrossDOS should
filter text files. 

The Text Translation checkbox lets you specify whether CrossDOS should
translate ASCII characters >127. 

The Translation Types listview lets you choose which type of translation
to apply whenever the Text Translation checkbox is selected. 


Extras2.1:Tools/Commodities/Exchange
------------------------------------
Now has messages localized and has a new more easily understood and more
standard interface.  Also uses ReadArgs() to parse command-line options.
Template is:

		CX_PRIORITY/N/K,CX_POPKEY/K,CX_POPUP/K
 

Extras2.1:Tools/Commodities/FKey
--------------------------------
FKey now has much greater functionality.  FKey used to let you assign
strings to function keys.  The new improved 2.1 FKey lets you assign any
of 8 commands to any key sequence you can enter.  The "Defined Keys"
scrolling list shows all currently defined key sequences.  The "New Key"
and "Delete Key" gadgets lets you add and remove key sequences. 
  
   
The "Command" cycle gadget lets you pick a command for the current key
sequence.  The possible commands are:

 Cycle Windows

This does the same thing as the IHelp CYCLE function. 

 Cycle Screens

This does the same thing as the IHelp CYCLESCREEN function.

 Enlarge Window

This does the same thing as the IHelp MAKEBIG function.

 Shrink Window

This does the same thing as the IHelp MAKESMALL function.

 Toggle Window

This does the same thing as the IHelp ZIPWINDOW function, except it Size
also works on windows that only have a zip gadget and don't have sizing
gadgets. 

 Insert Text

Whenever the key sequence is entered the specified string will be inserted
instead.  The string to insert is specified in the "Command Parameters"
gadget. 

 Run Program

This lets you run a program by hitting any key sequence.  The program name
and its arguments are specified in the "Command Parameters" gadget. 

 Run ARexx

This lets you run an ARexx script by hitting any key sequence.  The Script
script name and its arguments are specified in the "Command Parameters"
gadget.  Putting quotes around the script name makes it into an ARexx
string file. 
     
The "Command Parameters" text gadget lets you specify arguments for three
of the commands.  For example, if you wish "alt f1" to start DPaint:

	Add a new key sequence by selecting the "New Key" gadget.  
	Enter the key sequence in the string gadget as "alt f1".  
	Select the "Run Program" option in the Command cycle gadget.  
	Enter "DPaint" in the "Command Parameters" string gadget.

Given this new functionality, IHelp is now obsolete.     

The "Project/Save Defined Keys" menu option causes the currently defined
sequences to be saved in the FKey program icon.  The format for the Tool
Types thus produced are for example:

		<<alt f1>> RUN DPaint

where << and >> delimit the key sequence, "RUN" is the command to perform,
and "DPaint" is the argument to the command. 
     
FKey now uses ReadArgs() to parse command-line options. Template is:

			CX_PRIORITY/N/K,CX_POPKEY/K,CX_POPUP/K

As with the other Commodities programs, FKey is now localized.


Extras2.1:Tools/Commodities/NoCapsLock
--------------------------------------
Messages are now localized and NoCapsLock now uses ReadArgs() to parse
command-line options.  The template is:

			CX_PRIORITY/N/K

Extras2.1:Tools/IconEdit
------------------------ 
IconEdit is now localized. 


Extras2.1:Tools/ShowConfig
--------------------------
Combined Config and ShowConfig for 68040 awareness and, hopefully, clean
non-identication of unknown chip revisions.  Also added checks for Zorro
III extended size boards for revision numbers of chips. 



Install 2.1  
===========
The Install disk has been reorganized for the 2.1 release of the Amiga OS.
The biggest difference is the new support for localization of the system.
There are now Install, Install Language and Install Printer programs with
each one available in the ten languages supported by the locale.library.
There are also new tools for the set up of hard disk drives. 

Install2.1:HDSetup/#?
---------------------
Easy to use hard disk set up program.  This is designed for novice users.
Has localized messages and handles partitioning of devices with unit 0. 


Install2.1:Install 2.1/#?
-------------------------
Easy to use program for installing the whole 2.1 operating system. 


Install2.1:Install Languages/#?
-------------------------------          
Easy to use program for selecting the language the system will use.  This
copies the appropriate catalog files to Workbench for use by the
locale.library. 

Install2.1:Install Printer/#?
-----------------------------          
Easy to use program for adding a printer driver to the list of available
printers in Printer Preferences.  This copies the selected printer driver
to the DEVS:printers drawer. 






Locale 2.1
==========

This is a new part of the Workbench disk set which contains the data
needed to support international localization.  The following languages
are supported:

		 English		 Spanish          
		 German		 Portugese          
		 French		 Swedish          
		 Italian		 Norwegian          
		 Danish		 Dutch


Locale2.1:Locale/Catalogs/#?
----------------------------
Locale language catalogs.  Catalog files contain the text of a localized
application in a series of different languages.  That is, all the strings
for a given application are stored in a catalog file.  There is one
catalog file for each language the application supports.  These files are
managed by locale.library

Locale2.1:Locale/Countries/#?
----------------------------- 
Locale country information files.  Used by the Locale Preferences editor. 


Locale2.1:Locale/Languages/#?
-----------------------------
Locale language drivers.  There is one language driver for every language
supported in the system.  These are managed by locale.library and the
Locale Preferences editor. 

